README.md, before:


# gcor

<!-- badges: start -->

<!-- badges: end -->

**gcor** is an R package which provides tools for multivariate data
analysis based on a generalized correlation measure.

It features a generalized version of (absolute) correlation coefficient
for arbitrary types of data, including both numerical and categorical
variables. Missing values can also be handled naturally by treating them
as observations of a categorical value `NA`.

**Note that this project is in an early stage of development, so changes
may occur frequently.**

## Installation

You can install the development version of `gcor` from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with `pak`:

``` r
# install.packages("pak")
pak::pak("r-suzuki/gcor")
```

or with `devtools`:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("r-suzuki/gcor")
```

## Example

``` r
library(gcor)
```

**Generalized correlation measure** takes values in $[0,1]$, which can
capture both linear and nonlinear relations.

When the joint distribution of $(X,Y)$ is bivariate normal, its
theoretical value coincides with the absolute value of the correlation
coefficient.

``` r
# Generalized correlation measure
gcor(iris)
#>              Sepal.Length Sepal.Width Petal.Length Petal.Width   Species
#> Sepal.Length    1.0000000   0.2349075    0.8846517   0.8741873 0.7623968
#> Sepal.Width     0.2349075   1.0000000    0.3143301   0.2669031 0.6510740
#> Petal.Length    0.8846517   0.3143301    1.0000000   0.9503289 0.8221674
#> Petal.Width     0.8741873   0.2669031    0.9503289   1.0000000 0.8237429
#> Species         0.7623968   0.6510740    0.8221674   0.8237429 1.0000000
```

The **predictability score** is another variation of the generalized
correlation. It also takes values in $[0,1]$, reaching $1$ when $Y$ is
completely dependent on $X$ (i.e., when the conditional distribution
$f(Y \mid X)$ is a one-point distribution) and $0$ when $X$ and $Y$ are
independent.

``` r
# Predictability of Species from other variables
ps <- pscore(Species ~ ., data = iris)
dotchart(sort(ps), main = "Predictability of Species")
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example_iris_pscore-1.svg" width="100%" />

With $r_g$ as the generalized correlation between $X$ and $Y$, we can
define a dissimilarity measure:

$$
d(X,Y) = \sqrt{1 - r^2_g}
$$

It can be applied to cluster analysis:

``` r
# Clustering
gd <- gdis(iris)
hc <- hclust(gd, method = "ward.D2")
plot(hc)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example_iris_hclust-1.svg" width="100%" />

Multidimensional scaling would serve as a good example of an
application:

``` r
# Multidimensional scaling
mds <- cmdscale(gd, k = 2)
plot(mds, type = "n", xlab = "", ylab = "", asp = 1, axes = FALSE,
     main = "cmdscale with gdis(iris)")
text(mds[,1], mds[,2], rownames(mds))
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example_iris_cmdscale-1.svg" width="100%" />

Commit message:

Update automatic k selection / rename pscore to dgcor (#26)
* use 10-by-2 rule for selection of k

* change function name

README.md, after:


# gcor

<!-- badges: start -->

<!-- badges: end -->

**gcor** is an R package which provides tools for multivariate data
analysis based on a generalized correlation measure.

It features a generalized version of (absolute) correlation coefficient
for arbitrary types of data, including both numerical and categorical
variables. Missing values can also be handled naturally by treating them
as observations of a categorical value `NA`.

**Note that this project is in an early stage of development, so changes
may occur frequently.**

## Installation

You can install the development version of `gcor` from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with `pak`:

``` r
# install.packages("pak")
pak::pak("r-suzuki/gcor")
```

or with `devtools`:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("r-suzuki/gcor")
```

## Example

``` r
library(gcor)
```

**Generalized correlation measure** takes values in $[0,1]$, which can
capture both linear and nonlinear relations.

When the joint distribution of $(X,Y)$ is bivariate normal, its
theoretical value coincides with the absolute value of the correlation
coefficient.

``` r
# Generalized correlation measure
gcor(iris)
#>              Sepal.Length Sepal.Width Petal.Length Petal.Width   Species
#> Sepal.Length    1.0000000   0.2349075    0.8846517   0.8741873 0.7623968
#> Sepal.Width     0.2349075   1.0000000    0.3143301   0.2669031 0.6510740
#> Petal.Length    0.8846517   0.3143301    1.0000000   0.9503289 0.8221674
#> Petal.Width     0.8741873   0.2669031    0.9503289   1.0000000 0.8237429
#> Species         0.7623968   0.6510740    0.8221674   0.8237429 1.0000000
```

The **directed generalized correlation** is another variation of the
generalized correlation. It also takes values in $[0,1]$, reaching $1$
when $Y$ is completely dependent on $X$ (i.e., when the conditional
distribution $f(Y \mid X)$ is a one-point distribution) and $0$ when $X$
and $Y$ are independent.

``` r
# Dependency of Species on other variables
dgc <- dgcor(Species ~ ., data = iris)
dotchart(sort(dgc), main = "Predictability of Species")
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example_iris_pscore-1.svg" width="100%" />

With $r_g$ as the generalized correlation between $X$ and $Y$, we can
define a dissimilarity measure:

$$
d(X,Y) = \sqrt{1 - r^2_g}
$$

It can be applied to cluster analysis:

``` r
# Clustering
gd <- gdis(iris)
hc <- hclust(gd, method = "ward.D2")
plot(hc)
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example_iris_hclust-1.svg" width="100%" />

Multidimensional scaling would serve as a good example of an
application:

``` r
# Multidimensional scaling
mds <- cmdscale(gd, k = 2)
plot(mds, type = "n", xlab = "", ylab = "", asp = 1, axes = FALSE,
     main = "cmdscale with gdis(iris)")
text(mds[,1], mds[,2], rownames(mds))
```

<img src="man/figures/README-example_iris_cmdscale-1.svg" width="100%" />
